Fix crop raster episode (#45)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/geospatial-python: _episodes/08-crop-raster-data.md

~~~
{: .output}

The raster data is quite big. It will not be wise to visualize the entire image. To investigate the coverage of the image, we can plot the "overview" asset. 

~~~
# Get the overview asset
overview_image = rioxarray.open_rasterio(items[1].assets["overview"].href)
print(overview_image.shape)

# Visualize it
overview_image.plot.imshow(figsize=(8,8))
~~~
{: .language-python}

<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-overview-raster-00.png" title="Overview of the raster"  width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

> As we can see the overview image is much smaller comparing to the original true color image. Therefore the visualization is much faster. Suppose we are interested in the crop fields. We would like to know where are crop fields locate in the image. To compare its coverage with the raster data, we first check the coordinate systems of both raster and vector data. For raster data, we use `pyproj.CRS`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see, the overview image is much smaller compared to the original true color image. Therefore the visualization is much faster. If we are interested in the crop fields, then we would like to know where these are located in the image. To compare its coverage with the raster data, we first check the coordinate systems of both raster and vector data. For raster data, we use `pyproj.CRS`:
```

# Convert the coordinate system
cf_boundary_crop = cf_boundary_crop.to_crs(true_color_image.rio.crs)

# Plot
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
fig.set_size_inches((8,8))

# Plot image
overview_image.plot.imshow(ax=ax)

# Plot crop fields
cf_boundary_crop.geometry.boundary.plot(
    ax=ax,
    edgecolor="red",
)
~~~
{: .language-python}

<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-bounding-box-01.png" title="Bounding boxes of AoI over the raster"  width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Seeing from the location of the polygons, the crop fields (red) only takes a small part of
the raster. Therefore before actual processing, we can first crop the raster to
our area of interest. The `clip_box` function allows one to crop a raster by the

> min/max of the x and y coordinates. Note that we are croping the original image `true_color_image` now, but not the overview image `overview_image`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
min/max of the x and y coordinates. Note that we are croping the original image `true_color_image` now, and not the overview image `overview_image`.
```

{: .language-python}
<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-crop-by-bb-02.png" title="Crop raster by a bounding box"  width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

This cropped image can be saved for later usage:
~~~
raster_clip.rio.to_raster("raster_clip.tif")
~~~
{: .language-python}

## Crop raster data with polygons

We have a cropped image around the fields. To further analysis the fields, one may want to crop the image to the exact field boudanries.
This can be done with the `clip` function:

~~~
raster_clip_fields = raster_clip.rio.clip(cf_boundary_crop['geometry'], cf_boundary_crop.crs)
~~~
{: .language-python}

And we can visualize the results:
~~~
raster_clip_fields.plot.imshow(figsize=(8,8))
~~~
{: .language-python}
<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-crop-fields-solution-06.png" title="Raster cropped by crop fields" width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

We can save this image for later usage:
~~~
raster_clip_fields.rio.to_raster("crop_fields.tif")
~~~

## Crop raster data with a geometry buffer

> It is not always the case that the AoI comes in the format of polygon. Sometimes one would like to perform analysis around a (set of) point(s), or polyline(s). For example, in our AoI, there are also some groundwater monitoring wells coming as point vector data. One may also want to perform analysis around these wells. The location of the wells is stored in `data/groundwater_monitoring_well`. 

Reviewer: AoI is not defined anywhere in this lesson. Maybe we want to mention what it is the first time we use the acronym.

Author: I think it was mentioned in Line 18 of this episode

> It is quite common that the raster data you have in hand is too large to process, or not all the pixels are relevant to your area of interest (AoI).

Reviewer: Oops my bad! That's fine then!

> It is not always the case that the AoI comes in the format of polygon. Sometimes one would like to perform analysis around a (set of) point(s), or polyline(s). For example, in our AoI, there are also some groundwater monitoring wells coming as point vector data. One may also want to perform analysis around these wells. The location of the wells is stored in `data/groundwater_monitoring_well`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not always the case that the AoI comes in the format of polygon. Sometimes one would like to perform analysis around a (set of) point(s), or polyline(s). For example, in our AoI, there are also some groundwater monitoring wells available as point vector data. One may also want to perform analysis around these wells. The location of the wells is stored in `data/groundwater_monitoring_well`. 
```

> It is not always the case that the AoI comes in the format of polygon. Sometimes one would like to perform analysis around a (set of) point(s), or polyline(s). For example, in our AoI, there are also some groundwater monitoring wells coming as point vector data. One may also want to perform analysis around these wells. The location of the wells is stored in `data/groundwater_monitoring_well`. 

Author: ```suggestion
It is not always the case that the Area of Interest (AoI) comes in the format of polygon. Sometimes one would like to perform analysis around a (set of) point(s), or polyline(s). For example, in our AoI, there are also some groundwater monitoring wells coming as point vector data. One may also want to perform analysis around these wells. The location of the wells is stored in `data/groundwater_monitoring_well`. 
```

<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-wells-04.png" title="Ground weter level wells" width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

To select pixels around the geometries, one needs to first define a region including the geometries. This region is called a "buffer" and it is defined in the units of the projection. The size of the buffer depends on the analysis in your research. A buffer is also a polygon, which can be used to crop the raster data. The package `geopandas` has a `buffer` function to make buffer polygons.

~~~
# Create 200m buffer around the wells
wells_buffer = wells.buffer(200)
~~~
{: .language-python}

Now let's see what do the buffers look like in the image:
~~~
# Visualize buffer on raster
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
fig.set_size_inches((8,8))
raster_clip.plot.imshow(ax=ax)
wells_buffer.plot(ax=ax, color='red')
~~~
{: .language-python}
<img src="../fig/20-crop-raster-well-buffers-over-raster-05.png" title="Raster croped by buffer around wells" width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

> The red dots grow larger, which means they are converted from point to buffer polygons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The red dots have grown larger indicating the conversion from point to buffer polygons.
```

> > waterways_nl = waterways_nl.cx[xmin:xmax, ymin:ymax]
> > 
> > # waterways buffer
> > waterways_nl_buffer = waterways_nl.buffer(100)
> > 
> > # Crop
> > raster_clip_waterways = raster_clip.rio.clip(waterways_nl_buffer, waterways_nl_buffer.crs)
> > 
> > # Visualize
> > raster_clip_waterways.plot.imshow(figsize=(8,8))
> > ~~~
> > {: .language-python}
> > <img src="../fig/20-crop-waterways-07.png" title="Raster croped by buffer around waterways" width="512" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />
> {: .solution}
{: .challenge}

## Crop raster data using another raster data

So far we have learnt how to crop raster image with vector data. We can also crop a raster with another raster data. In this section, we will demonstrate how to crop the `true_color_image` image using the
`crop_fields` image.

> ## Using `crop_fields` raster image
>
> For this section, we will use the `crop_fields.tif` image that was produced in the section "**Crop raster data with polygon**".
{: .callout}

We read in the `crop_fields.tif` image and reproject it to the RD CRS system:
~~~
# Read crop_fields
crop_fields = rioxarray.open_rasterio("crop_fields.tif")

# Reproject to RD

> crop_fields = crop_fields.rio.reproject("EPSG:28992")

Reviewer 2: I am not sure why we need to reproject the image here? When doing `retroject_match` we would anyway convert `true_color_image` to the CRS of `crop_fields`, whatever that is - right?

Author: Yes. Actually this is an artificial step to put them in different CRS. The purpose of this is to show that the `retroject_match` can do reprojection and match in one step. Will add some more description text for this.

> 

Reviewer: For the command above, do we need to add an image for the visualise?

Author: Thx for pointing this out! In fact, after reading this section again, I realized that I was doing the previous reprojection in another way, which is causing the two images here in the same CRS instead of different CRS as stated in the text. I updated the intro text and added a new image. Would you like to give it another look?

Reviewer: Hey, I tried to take a look at the image but I cannot see the figure. Is the file pushed?

Author: You are right, I forgot to push the image. It should be there now.

> ## Exercise
>

> > This time let's do the other way around. Let's crop the `crop_fields` image using the `true_color_image` image. Discuss the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This time let's do it the other way around by cropping the `crop_fields` image using the `true_color_image` image. Discuss the results.
```
